[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Look at the cure, I think,
tells us something of costs.
Dr. Dean Ornish has
done a really good job
with people who have severe
cardiovascular disease.
And he puts them on
a strict diet, which
is basically a vegetarian diet.
That means a plant-based
diet, a high fiber diet loaded
with vitamins and
nutrients and good things
that grow on the ground
or at least ground
that's organically tended.
Ornish also has them
do stress reduction.
And these people are
able to arrest or reverse
cardiovascular disease in a
year or two without surgery.
That's impossible,
and yet it isn't.
Ornish has published a number
of papers, a number of books
on this.
He's a fully
qualified physician.
In fact, he's an eminently
qualified doctor.
And all he's doing is giving
people a plant-based diet
and having them do
stress reduction.
And these people are
arresting and reversing
cardiovascular disease, that
kind of cardiovascular disease
that would normally
require open heart surgery,
that would require
multiple bypass grafts.
Did I mention it was safer?
Did I mention it was cheaper?
And it works very well.
Therefore, why don't
all cardiologists
recommend this approach?
Well, in fairness, not all
of them have studied it.
In fairness, not all their
patients would do it.
And in fairness,
the drug companies
have something to say about it.
Did you notice there are
no drugs in there at all?
There's just no
drug therapy at all.
It's just meditation
and vegetarian diet.
There's no profit in this.
So the money is in disease,
cardiovascular disease
the number one killer.
It isn't cancer.
It's cardiovascular disease.
It's the number one
killer of women, too.
No, it's not breast cancer.
It's cardiovascular disease.
Women just die of cardiovascular
disease a little older
than men do.
But cardiovascular disease
is the number one killer.
In fact, about
half of all deaths
are from cardiovascular disease.
And in half of those deaths,
the first symptom is death.
So people can go
through their life
for decades with no symptoms
at all and then drop dead.
And then of course,
it's too late.
It's too late for a drug.
It's too late for a bypass.
It's too late for the ambulance.
It's too late for resuscitation.
The only way to
win is not to play.
And that requires that
they change their life.
And Ornish has shown that
cardiovascular disease
is a disease of civilization.
It is a lifestyle
disease, because we're
eating too much of the
wrong thing and not enough
of the right thing.
And your grandmother said it.
And her grandmother said it.
And everybody knows it's true.
But instead, it's fast food
and meat and fat and sugar
and starch and processed
food that has few vitamins.
And don't take
vitamin supplements
because they might hurt you.
Of course, cardiovascular
disease, that's not the risk.
We have to change this around.
The solution to
cardiovascular disease
is embarrassingly simple.
If we look at
animal research, we
know how to make an
animal get a heart attack.
We know how to make an animal
have hardened arteries,
clogged arteries.
It's true with people.
This is not new knowledge.
Doctors Wilfred
and Evan Shute were
reversing cardiovascular
disease with vitamin E,
E as in Edward,
back in the 1930s.
Before Pearl Harbor,
the Shutes were
treating cardiovascular disease
with wheat germ oil and then
with purified vitamin E.
And then in the '40s
and '50s, the Shutes
were treating all kinds of
other illnesses with vitamin E.
And then in around 1960, the
United States Post Office
convicted them of mail fraud
for mailing vitamin E to people.
The fact that it was
curing people for decades
did not really seem to matter.
But the audacity of sending 30
international unit vitamin E
capsules through the
mail, that was naughty.
Dying from
cardiovascular disease,
our government has nothing
but sympathy for the people
who are dead.
But now if you want
to try and cure it,
no one is going to help you.
Physicians have been taught that
nutrients are not scientific.
They're not medical.
They're not therapeutic.
And high doses, the doses
that work, are rarely tested.
When nutrients are
tested as therapy,
they use very low doses.
And that's why the
public and physicians
see all these research papers
that show ambiguous results.
One study is published and says,
vitamins help a little bit.
Another study is
published that says,
vitamins don't help very much.
And you have this
back and forth.
But the problem is because
all of those studies
are low dose studies.
The Shutes were using 1,600
to 3,600 international units
of vitamin E a day.
In the most perfectly
designed diet,
you can't possibly get more
than 100 units of vitamin E.
And that would be
almost impossible to do.
You'd have to consume a lot
of olive oil, a lot of nuts,
a lot of sprouted grains.
To say that the cure for
cardiovascular disease
is something along the line
of eating right and taking
vitamins is new knowledge.
But that's the answer.
The cause of
cardiovascular disease,
therefore, is a failure to
take the vitamins and a failure
to eat right.
The good news is
that even people
with advanced cardiovascular
disease, when they start
taking the nutrients and
they change their diet,
they can arrest it or
reverse it without surgery.